[narrator] Previously
on Captain Tsubasa...
Tsubasa and the soccer club
of Nankatsu Elementary
have started
their special training
under the direction
of Roberto.
In order for you
to win the tournament,
you must become friends
with the soccer ball first.
Whether is having breakfast
or on the way to school,
you must be with it
anytime and anytime.
[narrator] So, in order to
win against Genzo,
Tsubasa and his friends
are hard at practice.
[boy 3] [laughs]
Hey, pass it over to me!
[boy 1]
Pass, pass!
-Pass the ball to me!
-[boy 3] Yeah! Come on!
[boy 3]
Whoa!
[boy 1]
Taro!
-Give me the ball!
-Hey, give it back!
[grunts]
[chuckles]
-[boy 3]Hey! Pass it over!
-[boy 2] Nice one, Taro!
[boy 3] I'm right open!
[grunt]
-Finished.
-[boy 3] [laugh]
-[grunt]
-[boy 3] Yeah!
-[Mr. Misaki] Taro!
-Huh?
I have finished my painting.
It's almost time to leave.
Mm-hm.
Are you really going away?
It's been only a month since
you've transferred here.
Can't you at least stay here
until the next
school tournament?
[boy 2] We'd be sure to
win it if you were here.
No, I can't stay here.
It's about my father's work.
[boy 1]
Oh, come on!
Taro!
Well, everyone.
Take care now!
-Huh?
-Aww!
-See you soon, Tarooo!
-Bye!
-Come back soon!
Oh, poor Taro...
I really feel bad for him.
I understand that
his father is a painter
who travels around
the country.
[boy 1] But he had to
transfer schools
over 30 times just
in elementary school.
If that's how it goes,
he won't ever make friends.
[narrator]
5:17 A.M....
-[laughs]
-Oh shoot!
-[Roberto] Oh! Oh?
-[laughs]
[narrator]
Episode 5:
[narrator] On Their Way to
the Inter-School Tournament.
Come on,
what's the matter?
If you can't even take
this ball away from me,
You can't even dream of
winning against Shutetsu
at the tournament.
[grunts]
Oh...
[laughs]
What happened?
[panting]
[Roberto]
Come on, let's go again!
Okay!
[grunts]
-[grunts]
-Oh! Whoa!
[laughing]
[grunt] Oh, hi, Mom!
I'm back!
Welcome back, son.
Breakfast is ready.
[pant]
Thanks!
'Morning, Mrs. Ozora.
Good morning, Roberto.
I'm sorry that you had to
go train with him
so early in the morning.
No problem.
[Mrs. Ozora]
Really...
When it's about soccer,
he can't see anything else.
Just say no if he asks
for something impossible.
[Roberto] It's okay...
It was actually me who...
proposed to have
an early morning practice.
Oh... Is that so?
I guess it's fine, but...
Oh...
If it's about my eyes,
you don't have to worry.
-Huh?
-You've seen
my medical report,
haven't you?
Um... I'm so sorry.
I just couldn't help myself.
[narrator]
Diagnosis report...
Mr. Roberto Hongo.
The real reason
why I came here...
was to be examined by
the specialist
that Captain Ozora
recommended.
You already know
how that turned out.
I'll never be able to
return to the pitch again.
I've informed my team about
my intention to retire.
Oh.
But now, I'm actually
enjoying being a coach.
Besides... I'm having a lot
of fun teaching Tsubasa.
[Roberto] Yes.
He is something else...
He is.
The more I teach him,
the better he gets.
If I keep training him,
I'm sure I will forget
about my condition.
Roberto.
I'm really taking it
easy out there.
[chuckle]
[Ryo]
Okay, here we go!
[panting]
Ah! Oh! Uh!
-Whoa!
-[grunting]
-Huh?
-Oh, excuse me!
[panting]
[scream]
[sigh]
Wait!
Don't go that way!
Big news! Big news!
Big news!
I have to tell everyone
right away.
right away!
[scream]
[panting]
I'm late!
[grunts]
[groans]
[grunting]
[panting]
Aw, I'm late!
[teacher 1]
So, let's begin our class.
At the end of
last school year...
I asked every one of you
to pick a book they like
from the library.
However,
some of you are new.
- I knew Manabu
-[teacher 1] So I understand
- would be late.
-if you haven't selected
your book yet.
- He's terrible at dribbling.
-This week, you still have
time to go by the school
library and pick a book.
Ryo! Tsubasa!
I've got some
big news, guys!
-Huh?
Huh?
Uh-oh...
[laughs]
-How embarrassing!
-[student] [laughs]
[student] Oh my God. Did you
see the game today?
-It was crazy!
-Shutetsu Elementary
-has a practice match?
-No doubt about it.
When I walked home
yesterday,
I passed by
Mizukoshi Elementary.
So, the guys from
the soccer club
were talking about a match
they would have with
Shutetsu after school...
today.
Wait a minute! Did you go to
Mizukoshi Elementary?
It's on the other side
of town!
I had no other choice.
[Manabu] The ball just
didn't want to listen to me.
But... Thanks to that,
I was able to find out
about the practice match.
Oh...
Let's go watch it, Tsubasa.
The tournament starts soon.
We should see them play!
Yeah!
[narrator] Shutetsu Private
Elementary School...
[narrator] Soccer stadium.
-[student] [chatter]
Woooowwww!
So this is Shutetsu's field.
[students chatter]
What a prestigious school!
This is a professional
soccer field!
-Go!
-You can do it!
Kurata! Keep going!
Oh, they already started!
And look!
The goalkeeper isn't Genzo.
What?
[Ryo]
You're right.
[Hanji]
Of course not!
He won't be playing
in this match.
[chuckle]
-[Ryo] Hanji!
-[Masato] I see now.
Nishigaoka Elementary is
here to see the match too.
I'm guessing you don't know
why Genzo won't play.
-Huh?
[Hanji]
I hear he's not in school
and is under an extreme
training program at home.
Extreme training?
Apparently, the goal
Tsubasa scored on him
left him in shock
or something.
-Huh?!
-Well, even without Genzo,
they'll easily win against
an opponent like Mizukoshi.
Yaaayyyyyyy!
[Masato]
It's already 3 - 0
andthey're just in
the first half!
Mizukoshi isn't supposed
to be such a weak team.
But, Shutetsu has
a very strong team as usual.
Come on!
Mizukoshi Elementary!
Just do your best!
-Ohhh!
[grunts]
-He got it!
-He's wide open!
Just keep going like that.
[panting]
I got this!
[yell]
-Oh!
[grunts] [panting]
[chuckle]
[Ryo]
Shingo Takasugi!
He's the defensive center
that protects Shutetsu's
goal along with Genzo.
Huh?!
Ah!! Here goes
a long pass!
Nice pass!
[grunts]
[Ryo]
Midfielder Izawa Mamoru.
He's easily the team's
best playmaker.
I got him!
[grunts]
-[grunts]
Oh!
Heads up, Taki!
[grunts]
[Ryo] Shutetsu's most
versatile forward,
Hajime Taki,
known as the passing king!
Teppei, it's all yours!
All right,
leave it to me!
[Ryo]
And finally...
The powerful
center forward...
-Teppei Kisugi.
-[grunts]
Yaayyyyyyyy!
[Ryo] They call them...
"the Shutetsu quartet."
[narrator]
The Shutetsu quartet.
[Ryo] Shutetsu didn't win
nationals, thanks to Genzo.
They won because
those four guys there.
They're way too good!
Shoot! Shutetsu looks
even stronger than before!
They scored the fourth goal
so fast!
Winning against them
is gonna be impossible!
Shutetsu Elementary
is great!
I can't wait to play
against them!
-What?!
-[Ryo] You're crazy!
-Huh?!
[chuckles]
[grunts]
[sighs]
-Again!
-[grunts]
[grunts]
Again!
[Mr. Mikami]
[grunts]
Again!
Don't stop shooting!
[grunts]
That's way too slow!
Let's go!
[sighs]
Tsubasa's crazy.
He said he can't wait
to play them.
I'd be really happy
if we could beat them.
But if they attack us
like that...
[yell]
[grunts]
Go!
Oh, ah!
Teppei, it's all yours!
All right,
leave it to me!
[grunts]
And if Genzo
really is still doing
some sort of
special training...
Oh, no.
Let's do this!
[grunts]
Come on!
Give me another shot!
Bicycle kick!
Giving up now
is not an option.
This is our chance...
to play the best game
we can!
Yeah!
[chuckle]
-[Tsubasa] [grunts]
-[Roberto] Come on!
Is that all you've got?
[grunting]
Oohhh!
That's pretty good.
-[grunting]
-Come on now! [laughs]
[yell]
-Ah!
-I did it!
[panting]
How was that?
You are making tremendous
progress, Tsubasa.
All right!
Now then, let's practice
some different curve shots!
-[Ryo] Tsubasa! Coach!
-Oh?
We want to train just as
hard as Tsubasa is, Coach!
I know we whined
a lot yesterday,
but today,
we really want to win
against Shutetsu, all right?
Please train us too!
[KENICHI] We'll come early
every morning.
You guys!
[chuckles]
Very well!
-Everyone, get in position!
-Ah!
We'll start some training
until the tournament!
-Yay!
Pass it over here!
Over here!
[Kenichi]
[panting]
Tsubasa!
You're putting too much
pressure on your legs!
Relax and focus
your strength
at the moment of impact!
All right!
[Tsuyoshi] I got it!
[grunts]
-Oh!
-[Ryo] I'll take this!
-Ah!
-Plan your next move
before you get to the ball!
-Stay alert!
-Yes, sir!
[Roberto] Stand firmly to
allow your support leg
to be your axis...
Then rotate
your body, and kick.
Stand firmly,
rotate your body,
and kick.
[Roberto] You have to allow
the movements to flow.
-Give it a try.
-Yes, sir!
[Manabu]
Stand firmly...
Rotate body...
And kick!
Aww!
Nice try! Keep practicing
and you'll improve.
Okay.
[grunts]
Kenichi!
Pay attention to
your teammates!
[whimper]
-Move faster!
-Okay!
[Roberto]
Next!
[grunting]
-[Roberto] Next!
-[panting]
Wow, how'd you do that?
Just try to kick the ball
at an angle to spin it.
Stand firmly,
rotate body, and kick!
Wow, I did it!
This'll be
our game strategy...
Tsubasa!
Ah... [grunt]
[grunts]
Ah!
Tomorrow's finally the day!
This feels so good.
Hmm...
All right!
Stand firmly...
Rotate body, and kick!
[gasp]
I did it!
[laughing]
Good morning!
Move away!
Even Manabu isn't late
to school anymore.
Everyone seems so easily
to make it on time.
This is the result
of all our practices.
It's all thanks
to our coach.
You guys... We can win
the game tomorrow!
The guys from
the soccer club
are in high spirits.
They always used to give up
without even trying.
Yeah... They say that
they'll win this year.
I hear they're practicing
all the time
and not even sleeping!
-Huh?!
Still, what's the point
of coming to school
dribbling the ball?
I think they just
like to show off.
-[Sanae] Be quiet!
-Ouch!
I won't allow you to make
fun of our soccer club!
[boy] I'm sorry,
I won't do it again!
[laughs]
[Sanae]
[squeal]
He looks amazing today.
-[sigh]
The tournament
starts tomorrow!
We will practice
until the day is over!
[student]
All right!
[kendo] Put all of
your effort into practice!
-Even our lousy soccer club
-Yeah!
-is still training.
-Pass it over here!
-This year, we have to win,
-Come on, over here!
no matter what it takes!
Truly amazing.
I've never seen the students
so motivated before.
Mhm...
-Aw, come on!
-Win! Win!
And even the Nankatsu
cheerleading squad
is fired up!
[Sanae]
Tsubasa!
What's that?
[Koji] Sanae, enough already
with Tsubasa!
We have to cheer on
all the other athletes too!
-Don't you dare!
-Whoa!
Are you questioning
my leadership?
She's lost it.
Come on,
get back to work!
-Uhh...
[Sanae]
Hurry up!
-Hooray! Hooray!
-Tsu-ba-sa!
I can't hear you!
-Hooray! Hooray!
-Tsu-ba-sa!
Whoa...
What?
Tsubasa as a goalkeeper?
Listen to me carefully.
This is my last lesson
before the inter-school
tournament.
Get ready, Tsubasa!
Oh! Uh...
Is he really shooting?
[yell]
-Whoa!
-So fast!
It is impossible to stop.
What's the matter, Tsubasa?
You have to at least
try to react!
Uh-huh!
Once more!
[grunts]
Again!
Tsubasa is not even close
to reaching the ball
in time.
[Masato] We're really lucky
to have such a good player
as our coach.
Awesome!
This is the power
of a real pro player!
[grunts]
Oh my gosh! These shots
are definitely unstoppable!
I've got it!
Now I understand
the purpose of this!
Oh!
How about another one?
[laughs]
All right!
[narrator] 26th Inter-School
Tournament...
-Thank you very much, Coach!
Genzo still hasn't shown up.
I wonder if he's okay.
We have a game tomorrow.
Relax, guys.
We're up against Nankatsu
who we already
defeated 30 to 0.
We'll easily win if we just
mark that Tsubasa guy,
the one who scored a goal
against our captain.
I totally agree.
It'll be easy an easy win.
[chuckles]
All right!
Great job, guys!
Tomorrow's the big day.
You've trained very hard.
Go home and
get some rest.
-Yes, sir!
Huh?
-That was a good
-I cannot wait
-practice game, huh?
-for tomorrow's game!
-Yeah.
-Me too!
Let's go get something
to eat!
Good idea.
I've learned to lift
and control the ball now.
That's really great!
We've progressed a lot!
And it's all thanks
to you, Tsubasa!
He really inspires
all of us!
[laughs]
Tsubasa,
did you figure it out?
What?
Why I made you play
as a goalkeeper.
Oh, yeah!
Now I get which shots
are hard to stop.
For a goalkeeper...
some shots are harder
to see than other shots.
And it's hard to know
which way to jump.
But in the end,
I didn't stop any of them.
[laughs]
Tsubasa...
Every time to make a shot,
think as a goalkeeper.
By doing that, you'll know
where to shoot tomorrow.
Tsubasa...
The team needs you!
I know! I'll do my best
to help us win!
That's the spirit!
Show them the results
of your training.
Give Genzo a great match!
All right!
I promise!
We will win tomorrow!
I wonder who that boy is?
He seems to be really good.
[panting]
Let's go again!
Come on, Genzo!
[panting]
All right, Genzo,
I want you to show me
the results of
all this training!
[grunts]
[grunting]
Real good!
That's perfect!
-[gasps]
-Incredible!
He stopped
two shots at a time...
at full power!
I'll see you at
the inter-school tournament.
Get ready, Tsubasa.